Exhibitions / Oppourtunities Section

Averages from 2019...

The average 2019 artist said that exhibiting their work was somewhat of a priority. They participated in 1-2 group exhibitions, 0 solo exhibitions and applied for 1-25 exhibitions, paying $0 for these applications. Their work was written about on an average of 0 times in online or print publications and was re-posted via social media 0-5 times. Most of their exhibition opportunities came from other artist peers, structured application calls, teachers, social media contacts and direct emails from gallerists / curators.

The average artist assisted in the organization of 0 shows / events / books etc. They did not have official gallery representation and were not given any legal paperwork from galleries or dealers. On average applying for residencies and grants was not important and the average artist applied to 0 and attended 0 residencies. Similarly the average artist applied for 0 and received 0 grants. The few that received grants received $500-$5,000 total.



Studio Visits / Sales Section:

Averages from 2019...

The average artist in 2019 said that selling their work was somewhat important, and made a majority of their sales to family and friends with considerable percentages of their sales going to other artists, amateur / new collectors, online fans and event attendees as well. A majority of their sales were made directly through Instagram and through galleries as well as through studio visits, Facebook and via email. 

Most artworks sold were paintings, with t-shirts, drawings and prints constituting significant percentages also. 95% percent of artists made between $0 and $5,000 in total from sales of their work over 2019. 31% of artists reported selling some of their work via Etsy, with smaller percentages reporting sales through Saatchi, ArtFinder, BigCartel, Padel8 and Artsy.

Most artists said that having studio visits was not a priority for them in 2019, and a majority of artists had between 0 and 5 studio visits over the year. These visits were primarily with other artists, family and friends but also with gallerists, curators and collectors. Most of these studio visits came about as the result of other artists / peers and conversations at opening receptions as well as from teachers / faculty and direct messages via Instagram, Facebook and email.



